Vb docs new realease (#62)
matter-labs/zksync-web-v2-docs: docs/dev/zksync-v2/l1-l2-interop.md

## L1 -> L2 communication

> Sending transactions from Ethereum to zkSync is done via the `zkSync` smart contract. It allows the sender to request transactions directly from the L1. Thereby allowing permissionless pass of any data from the Ethereum into zkSync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sending transactions from Ethereum to zkSync is done via the zkSync smart contract. It allows the sender to request transactions directly from the L1. Thereby allowing permissionless pass of any data from the Ethereum into zkSync.
```

For each transaction, besides supplying the transaction input data, the user also provides the following:

- The queue type to use. It is either a `Deque`, `HeapBuffer` or `Heap`. `Deque` is used for sequential processing of the transactions, while `HeapBuffer` and `Heap` are used for fee-prioritized processing of transactions. For the testnet, only `Deque` is available. The details on using `HeapBuffer` and `Heap` will be available later with their release.
- The operator fee for the transaction as part of the transaction `value` (the amount of ETH passed with the L1 transaction).

## Priority mode

If the operator fails to process the needed L1 transactions, the system enters the Priority mode. In this mode, everyone can become an operator by staking tokens. The exact details of the priority mode are still under development and will be described in more detail closer to the mainnet launch.

## L2 -> L1 communication

> L2 -> L1 communication, in contrast to L1 -> L2 communication, is based only on transferring of the information, and not on the execution transaction on the other side. It is a built-in feature, which is made up of two parts: sending a message from L2 and reading a message in L1. The first is implemented as a call to the L2 system smart contract. And the second is implemented on the L1 zkSync smart contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
L2 -> L1 communication, in contrast to L1 -> L2 communication, is based only on transferring of information, and not on the  transaction execution on L1. It is a built-in feature, which is made up of two parts: sending a message from L2 and reading it on L1. The first is implemented as a call to an L2 system smart contract. And the second is implemented on the zkSync L1 smart contract.

> L2 -> L1 communication, in contrast to the L1 -> L2 communication, is based only on the transfer of the information, and not on the execution transaction on the other side. It is a built-in feature, which is made up of two parts: sending a message from L2 and reading a message in L1. The first is implemented as a call to the L2 system smart contract. And the second is implemented on L1 `zkSync` smart contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
L2 -> L1 communication, in contrast to L1 -> L2 communication, is based only on transferring of the information, and not on the execution transaction on the other side. It is a built-in feature, which is made up of two parts: sending a message from L2 and reading a message in L1. The first is implemented as a call to the L2 system smart contract. And the second is implemented on the L1 zkSync smart contract.
```

> L2 -> L1 communication, in contrast to L1 -> L2 communication, is based only on transferring of the information, and not on the execution transaction on the other side. It is a built-in feature, which is made up of two parts: sending a message from L2 and reading a message in L1. The first is implemented as a call to the L2 system smart contract. And the second is implemented on L1 zkSync smart contract as getter function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
L2 -> L1 communication, in contrast to L1 -> L2 communication, is based only on transferring of the information, and not on the execution transaction on the other side. It is a built-in feature, which is made up of two parts: sending a message from L2 and reading a message in L1. The first is implemented as a call to the L2 system smart contract. And the second is implemented on L1 zkSync smart contract as a getter function.

> ### Sending message

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Sending a message
```
or "Sending messages"

> Each message sent from L2 and L1 contains the sender's address and the message itself. The length of the sent message can be arbitrarily large, but the longer the message, the more expensive it is to send. The operator will "show" each message in Ethereum, so that information about all messages is always publicly available. Because of this, messages sent to L1 are guaranteed to be read, regardless of the honesty of the operator.

Reviewer 2: > Each message sent from L2 and L1

Is it "to L1"? If not, then change "and" by "or"

Author: it is "to"

> Each message sent from L2 and L1 contains the sender's address and the message itself. The length of the sent message can be arbitrarily large, but the longer the message, the more expensive it is to send. The operator will "show" each message in Ethereum, so that information about all messages is always publicly available. Because of this, messages sent to L1 are guaranteed to be read, regardless of the honesty of the operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each message sent from L2 and L1 contains the sender's address and the message itself. The length of the message can be arbitrarily large, but the longer the message, the more expensive it is. The operator will "show" each message in Ethereum, so that information about all messages is always publicly available. Because of this, messages sent to L1 are guaranteed to be read, regardless of the honesty of the operator.

Reviewer 2: > Because of this, messages sent to L1 are guaranteed to be read, regardless of the honesty of the operator.

I am not sure that I follow this sentence. Do we really need it?

Author: I just wanted to say, that all messages from L2 to L1 can be read without the help of a validator. In other words, if you sent a message, then you or someone else can prove that message was sent.

Author: Ok, the problem was not on the execution of something by the validator. I mean, with the zkSync block we sent L2 -> L1 messages that were stored in that block and the Merkle root of the messages. Operator can't send Merkle root of messages without providing data for all leaves (in our case - messages).

> ### Reading message

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Reading a message

> Every sent message can be read on-chain. Moreover, it is possible to prove that message has been sent in a specific L2 block. To make such proof as cheap as possible for both the user and the validator, we store all messages for each L2 block in the Merkle Tree. Accordingly, any L1 smart contract can consume the sent message by providing proof of inclusion to some of the L2 block. A proof can be generated based only on the data that the operator sent to the `zkSync` L1 smart contract. Proof data is also available upon API request. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every message sent could be read on-chain. Moreover, it is possible to prove that a message was sent in a specific L2 block. To make such proof as cheap as possible for both the user and the validator, for each L2 block we store all messages in a merkle Tree. As a result, any L1 smart contract can consume a message by providing a proof of inclusion to some of the L2 block. This proof can be generated based only on the data that the operator sent to the `zkSync` L1 smart contract. The proof data is also available upon API request.

Reviewer 2: > any L1 smart contract can consume a message by providing a proof of inclusion to some of the L2 block.

I don't get the last part of the sentence, it looks like something is missing. please rephrase.

> Every sent message can be read on-chain. Moreover, it is possible to prove that message has been sent in a specific L2 block. To make such proof as cheap as possible for both the user and the validator, we store all messages for each L2 block in the Merkle Tree. Accordingly, any L1 smart contract can consume the sent message by providing proof of inclusion to some of the L2 block. A proof can be generated based only on the data that the operator sent to the `zkSync` L1 smart contract. Proof data is also available upon API request. 

Reviewer: > upon API request

Need to add a link to the API endpoint (I will do it myself)

#### Summary

> - To use L2 -> L1 communication, it is needed to send one transaction in L2 and one in L1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- L2 -> L1 communication requires one transaction on L2 and one on L1.
```

> - Messages can be of arbitrary-length long.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Messages can be of arbitrary length.
```

> - All data needed for proving message inclusion into an L2 block can always be restored from Ethereum. However, the easiest way is to request the proof from the operator via the API. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- All the data needed for proving message inclusion in an L2 block can always be restored from Ethereum. However, the easiest way is to request the proof from the operator via API.

> - All data to be provided as proof of message inclusion into the L2 block can be restored from Ethereum in any case. However, the operator provides proof for any message by an API method. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All data needed for proving message inclusion into an L2 block can always be restored from Ethereum. However, the easiest way is to request the proof from the operator via the API. 
```
